An Umngeni Municipality driving licence examiner is expected to appear in court soon after he was arrested on Wednesday on suspicion of fraud and corruption. The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) in a statement said the arrest happened as anti-corruption agencies continue to dismantle a suspected criminal network that had allegedly hijacked the local licensing department for personal gain. “The official who is also a registered traffic officer was arrested by the members of the National Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit of the Road Traffic Management Unit together with the Hawks at the licensing department on Wednesday afternoon,” the RTMC said in a statement. A total of 19 suspects have now been arrested at this station since March last year in connection with fraud and corruption in the issuing of learner licences. Nine of the suspects who were learner licence applicants have already been convicted to five years suspended sentences. Five officials are scheduled to appear at the Durban Commercial Court on Thursday. Others who include a former manager at the centre and driving school operator are set to appear in July. “Meanwhile, an internal disciplinary tribunal set up by the municipality found three officials guilty of gross dishonesty this week. The three  - Mr D Nkala, Mr M Ndlovu and Mr M Zondi – had faced allegations that they had over a period of time unlawfully assisted learner licence applicants to answer examination questions and enabled them to pass without their proficiency being properly tested,” the agency said. The tribunal recommended a summary dismissal of the officials after finding that the employment relationship has irretrievably broken down. The RTMC has welcomed the latest arrest and the outcome of the disciplinary process, saying Umngeni Local Municipality has set an example that should be emulated by other authorities when faced with allegations of gross dishonesty by their employees. The RTMC urges anyone with information on bribery, fraud and corruption to contact them on 0861 400 800. – SAnews.gov.za 