The Inspection and Enforcement Services (IES) will meet with the Chinese business community in the North West - on the implementation of the National Minimum Wage Act (NMW). The unit, which falls within the Department of Employment and Labour, has identified Chinese employers as one of the key stakeholders in the province as they employ a significant number in the wholesale and retail sectors. “The wholesale and retail sector is one of the sectors that are mostly affected by NMW, hence the department found it imperative to engage with them,” the department said on Wednesday. As such, the session, which will be held on Friday, will also seek to inform them about exemptions of certain sectors and how to apply for such; to share knowledge on best practices and how to comply with labour Acts such as the Basic Conditions of Employment Act. With more than 20 000 Chinese foreign nationals living in South Africa, the department identified the Chinese employers around the country as one of the key stakeholders in ensuring the implementation of the NMW which became effective from January. As such the department has been crisscrossing the provinces to educate the Chinese employers. The NMW sets the minimum which a worker must be paid. According to the law, all workers must earn a minimum rate of R20 per hour. The Act applies to all sectors. Meanwhile, the department will next week – hold a Private Security Sector Seminar which will educate its stakeholders about compliance with the labour legislation and also aim to encourage the knowledge sharing between stakeholders in the sector with government. The seminar is expected to be attended by 200 delegates targeting captains of industries, employer organisations, union representatives and other interested stakeholders. The event set for 26 June 2019 in Braamfontein will be held under the theme “Paying the National Minimum Wage (NMW) is the right thing to do”. Some of the issues that will come under the spotlight during the seminar will include the NMW and Basic Conditions of Employment Act amendments; Compensation for Occupational Injuries Diseases Act in the sector; Unemployment Insurance Act as amended; Provident Fund; and general issues plaguing the industry. The sector in South Africa has in recent years experienced an unprecedented growth due to crime. – SAnews.gov.za