The South African Revenue Service (SARS) has encouraged taxpayers to submit income tax returns via the SARS eFiling or the SARS MobiApp when the tax season commences on 1 July 2019. Taxpayers who do not use SARS eFiling or the SARS MobiApp but require assistance from SARS branch staff to file their income tax returns, will only be able to do so from 1 August 2019 until 31 October 2019. “Non-provisional taxpayers who use SARS eFiling and the SARS MobiApp will have a longer period to file their returns, with a deadline of 4 December,” said SARS. The reason for the staggered approach to Tax Season 2019 is to encourage taxpayers to use the two digital channels, namely SARS eFiling and the SARS MobiApp, which are available 24/7, offers enhanced features and removes the need to queue at a SARS branch. The SARS MobiApp for smart phones is downloadable from the Play Store or App Store, and will allow taxpayers to register for SARS eFiling, submit a return, upload supporting documents, retrieve their username or reset their password and view their Notice of Assessment (ITA34), among other services. The staggered approach to Tax Season 2019, said SARS, is necessary because SARS continues to receive more than a million taxpayers at its branches who do not need to file tax returns. In the statement, SARS reminded taxpayers that not all taxpayers need to file an income tax return. Taxpayers who meet all of the following criteria need not submit a return: To further assist taxpayers from making unnecessary trips to SARS branches, taxpayers who are not required to file a return and who have repeatedly filed a return in the past will receive a notification from SARS that they do not have to submit a return. “In addition they will receive simulated outcome from SARS as if they had filed a return. The outcome will be based on information that SARS has received from employers and other sources and will who show what the taxpayer could expect as if they had filed a return,” said SARS. Tax Season Deadlines For eFilers and users of the SARS MobiApp, Tax Season opens on 1 July and closes on 4 December 2019. Taxpayers who go to a SARS branch to file, will be assisted from 1 August until 31 October 2019. Provisional taxpayers have until 31 January 2020 to file via SARS eFiling. – SAnews.gov.za