Cabinet has noted with concern the spate of killing of law-enforcement officers. In September 2018, 28 police officers were killed and since the beginning of 2019, 26 police officers have been killed. The most recent case is that of Sergeant Zephania Dladla, Constable Nomasonto Mhlanga and Constable Nhlamulo Vukeya. Addressing a post-Cabinet media briefing in Pretoria on Thursday, Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu, extended on behalf of Cabinet deepest condolences to their families, friends and colleagues. “Cabinet condemns in the strongest possible terms these attacks. Police officers risk their lives to protect our communities. “We all have to work together with law-enforcement agencies to ensure that perpetrators of these heinous crimes are arrested and face the full might of the law. Cabinet commends the justice system that has resulted in nine perpetrators of these crimes being handed life sentences, in this year alone,” Mthembu said. Mozambique Border shooting incident With regard to the recent Mozambique Border shooting incident, Minister Mthembu said the South African Government has sent a high-level team to Mozambique following the shooting incident. The incident, which left two Mozambican police officers dead, took place last week between the SANDF soldiers and Mozambican border police officers on the border near Ndumo, KwaZulu-Natal. At the time of the shooting, the SANDF soldiers were conducting routine patrols as part of border protection. The high-level team sent to Mozambique comprises members of the SANDF and South African Police Service (SAPS). The team will meet with their Mozambican counterparts. “The team is on a fact-finding mission into the shooting incident. They are expected to, amongst others, discuss a joint investigation team between Mozambique and South Africa,” Mthembu said. The team is led by SANDF Chief of Joint Operations Lieutenant-General Barney Hlatswayo and SAPS Deputy National Commissioner Lieutenant-General Sehlahle Masemola. “Cabinet requests all South Africans to await the conclusion and outcomes of this investigation. We remain committed to working with the government of Mozambique as a neighbour in improving the well-being of all our citizens,” he said. – SAnews.gov.za