Gauteng MEC for Public Transport and Road Infrastructure, Jacob Mamabolo, has assured the family of a Tshwane taxi driver that police will work very hard to find those responsible for his death. According to reports, Jabu Baloi was shot dead after he allegedly tried to stop a shooter from selling drugs in the Tshwane CBD on Tuesday. “We have assured the family of the commitment of the rest of government to get to the bottom of this issue through an investigation that will give us the totality of the facts of what happened. “Getting the facts of what happened is crucial for the family to heal and find comfort. It is important that all the facts are put forward and for the perpetrators to face the full might of the law,” the MEC said. He was on Thursday addressing members of the media in Soshanguve after his meeting with Baloi’s family. The MEC was accompanied by the Gauteng minibus taxi industry leadership as well as law enforcement officials. The MEC noted that the taxi industry was affected by criminal activities as a result of drug use. “The taxi industry expressed that they are also affected when commuters are marked and come to them … that requires them to provide support and help. “We have agreed with the provincial commissioner that the lines of communication must be open between government, South African Police Service (SAPS) and the taxi industry. When they raise issues we should follow up on them,” he said. The MEC has expressed shocked at the death of Baloi. He also emphasized the importance of fighting to rid society of the scourge of drugs. “We came to the family of Jabu Baloi to convey our heartfelt condolences, sympathies and to extend our solidarity with all family and friends on the untimely death of Baloi. “Jabu died at a time when we were not expecting him to pass on. He is the breadwinner and pillar of the family. He is also one of the key players in the taxi industry amongst the associations,” the MEC said. Baloi is expected to be laid to rest this weekend in Soshanguve. – SAnews.gov.za