South African Airways (SAA) on Tuesday announced a second day of flight cancellations to Hong Kong. “SAA would like to advise all passengers and customers that its flights between Johannesburg and Hong Kong, which have been scheduled to operate on Tuesday, 13 August 2019, remain cancelled following yesterday’s cancellations,” it said. The cancellation of flights follows on protests seen in the special administrative region. The national carrier said the cancellation follows an update it received from the Airport Authorities in Hong Kong indicating that the conditions at the Hong Kong International Airport are not conducive for the airport and the airlines to run their operations as per normal. “Whilst the airport and the airspace remain open, it is not possible to operate passenger flights in or out of Hong Kong as in some cases, terminals have been blocked and access to check in counters is not possible due to demonstrations taking place at the airport,” said SAA spokesperson Tlali Tlali. The following flights have been affected: SAA encouraged its customers to update their contact details on https://www.flysaa.com/manage-fly/manage/booking-management adding that assistances will be provided to all ticketed customers holding a SAA ticket (only) via any SAA Call Centre, City Travel Office or your own Travel Agent. The airline’s centre can be reached in Johannesburg on (0) 11 978 1111 or 0861 606 606 and in Hong Kong on +852 2877 3277. Meanwhile, the airline will rebook affected passengers onto alternative flights/dates between HKG-JNB-HKG under several conditions. These include: In addition unused tickets will be refunded. “SAA regrets the inconvenience caused to its customers and passengers as a result of these cancellations and will provide updates as and when new information becomes available,” said Tlali. The airline will resume its flights as soon as the situation returns to normal. On Monday, the national carrier said it received notification of protest action affecting Hong Kong International Airport. This as authorities in Hong Kong suspended air operations to and from the airport. – SAnews.gov.za