The results for the 2019 June matric exams written by both National Senior Certificate (NSC) and Senior Certificate (SC) candidates are out. “The results of the candidates will be available at the 6 598 centres where the candidates wrote the examinations and the results will be available from Friday, 2 August 2019,” said the Basic Education Department on Thursday. The 2019 June examination was the first Grade 12 reconfigured examination written by both NSC and SC candidates. The reconfiguration of the June examination system saw the supplementary examination, which used to be written in February/March each year by NSC candidates, merged with the June Senior Certificate examination. The Senior Certificate examination caters for adult candidates who want to have a second chance at obtaining a matric certificate. The reconfigured examination was written by a diverse group of candidates, which is indicative of the intention to include as many of the adult candidates who needed a second chance at obtaining a matric qualification. The learners who sat for exams included: The examination was monitored by provincial officials and nationally appointed monitors. The department is proud to announce that there were no serious irregularities that could have compromised the examination as a whole. The key learner achievements emanating from the writing of the 2019 June examination are presented separately for SC and NSC candidates. SC candidates A total of 100 825 SC candidates wrote the examination in either in one, two or more subjects. In total, 6 952 candidates wrote the full complement of subjects to enable them to achieve the qualification and 700 of them attained the NSC, 186 achieved admission to Bachelor studies, and 318 achieved admission to Diploma studies. The performance of the SC candidates in key subjects is as follows: NSC Candidates A total of 117 533 NSC candidates wrote this examination. Candidates who wrote this examination and want to improve their results may register for the November 2019 examination. The closing date for registration for these candidates will be 16 August 2019. Candidates may also apply for a recheck or a remark of their subject results and the closing date for the recheck or remark is 16 August 2019. – SAnews.gov.za