Cabinet has instructed the South African Police Service (SAPS) and other law enforcement agencies to pursue suspects linked to the recent attack of SAPS members in the Johannesburg city centre, without any fear or favour. Cabinet warned that the recent attacks on SAPS members in the line of duty should not be tolerated. “Any attack on our law enforcement officers is an attack on our State and its sovereignty, and such attacks should not go unpunished. People who attack our police must receive the harshest possible punishment [and] if there are corrupt police members, they should receive the harshest punishment too,” Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu said. Briefing the media on Thursday following a Cabinet meeting, Mthembu called on all communities to support government agencies, particularly those enforcing laws. He also called on the law enforcement agencies to continue to enforce the law and act decisively against those who violate the laws of the country. “Municipal by-laws must at all times be adhered to and we call on all our municipalities to enforce our municipal by-laws. We remain a law abiding country that will continue to ensure peace, stability and prosperity for its citizens. “Cabinet expects all who live or work in South Africa to collaborate with our law enforcement agencies to combat criminal and illegal activities. Cabinet reassures the nation that the country’s law enforcement agencies will act decisively and arrest people who perpetrate lawlessness and violence,” Mthembu said. Concerns about destruction of public property While welcoming the end of the recent strike in the City of Tshwane, Mthembu said it is highly regrettable that bus drivers blocked major routes into the city with municipal buses, and some of the strikers vandalised infrastructure and reportedly intimidated members of the public. Mthembu said Cabinet is concerned about the growing incidents of destruction of public property that accompany protest and strike action in the country. “The right to protest is protected and enshrined in the Constitution, and there are many peaceful ways to address public grievances without destroying public services and property. Restoring damaged infrastructure has huge financial and social implications, which negatively impact on citizens who use such amenities daily,” the Minister warned. – SAnews.gov.za