The South African Police Service (SAPS) has embarked on a nationwide recruitment process in an effort to bolster crime fighting efforts. This year, SAPS management said it is seeking to attract youth between the ages of 18 and 30 for the 2019/2020 Basic Police Learning Development Programme (BLDP) intake. Prospective applicants need to be in possession of a Senior Certificate/National Senior Certificate or National Certificate (Vocational). Those in possession of post matric qualifications and do not have criminal records and pending criminal cases are encouraged to apply. “Those who previously served in a government department and were subsequently dismissed due to misconduct are discouraged from applying,” SAPS said. To ensure that SAPS enlists disciplined, upright and passionate candidates, only the right candidates will be enlisted. “All applicants will be subjected to fitness, psychometric and integrity testing as well as medical evaluations during the recruitment, selection and enlistment process. Vetting and fingerprint verifications will also be conducted. “Successful police trainees will be subjected to continuous security and fitness screening, which included continuous verification of criminal profile as well as medical and physical fitness (inclusive of drug/substance abuse testing),” said SAPS. During the training phase, trainees will receive a R4 500 stipend. Deputy National Commissioner: Human Resources Management, Lieutenant General Bonang Mgwenya, said SAPS is seeking women recruits who are ready to take up the oath of office to serve and protect the people of South Africa. “We are therefore encouraging all youths from all walks of life to join the service and contribute to a safe and secure South Africa. To ensure that we attract the right people into the service, we have developed a rigorous and thorough recruitment process that includes psychometric, fitness and integrity testing. “Successful applicants will add to the existing workforce capacity at stations to ensure that the people of South Africa are and feel safe. We wish the applicants all the best in their endeavours to join the service. We are looking forward to welcoming upright, disciplined and accountable individuals who are ready to serve the nation,” said Mgwenya. Successful applicants must take note that they will be trained at any SAPS Academy in South Africa and will be placed at any police station/unit in South Africa after completion of training. Recruitment will take place in the following Streams: STREAM 1 STREAM 2 - SAnews.gov.za