Public servants in Ugu and King Cetshwayo District Municipalities in KwaZulu-Natal will on Friday have an opportunity to engage with Public Service and Administration Deputy Minister Sindisiwe Chikunga as part of the Integrated Government Wide-Public Service Month (IGW-PSM). The visits form part of the month-long celebratory and service delivery focused programme by various government departments that is being rolled out across the country in all three spheres of government from 1 September to 04 October. The visits will be held under the theme, ‘Khawuleza: taking public service to the people: we belong, we care, we serve’. Through the IGW- PSM programme, government seeks to call on all public servants to have a sense of urgency in the manner in which they are serving citizens, recommit and rededicate themselves to the principles of Batho Pele. Chikunga will start her journey on Friday 6th, in Port Shepstone Regional Hospital’s Thuthuzela Care Centre in the Ray Nkonyani Local Municipality, to assess the state of the centre and to observe how services are rendered at the government facility. Thuthuzela care centres are one-stop centres which enable rape victims to lodge a case with the police and receive counselling and medical care within one place. These centres, which were introduced as part of the anti-rape strategy by government, are located in various areas of the country to respond to the problem of sexual offences. The Deputy Minister will later address and lead public servants from various departments in the region in re-pledging their commitment to the Service Charter. On Monday, Deputy Minister Chikunga will then proceed to Ngwelezana Hospital’s Thuthuzela Centre, in Empangeni in the King Cetshwayo District and then host an engagement with public servants in the region. The focus of this year’s Public Service Month is about reviving the ethos of Batho Pele - the notion of Putting People First, and to re-orientate public servants back into the Service Charter - a commitment that demands that they serve with integrity and professionalism, while visibly portraying a positive attitude. The spirit of Batho Pele remains a crux that defines the Public Service across all of government. – SAnews.gov.za 