Online applications for the 2020 academic year for Grades 1 and 8 in Gauteng will open on 13 May 2019. Briefing the media on the 2020 academic year application process on Sunday, Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi announced that the online application system will officially open on 13 May 2019 at 8am and close on 15 July 2019 at 12 midnight. Lesufi said the applications will open early so that there is enough time to plan for the allocation of resources such as educators, classrooms, learning and teaching study materials. “The department is pleased to announce that the capacity of the Admissions Online Application System has been increased to accommodate 50 000 simultaneous users,” Lesufi said. Parents are urged to use the online system and log on www.gdeadmissions.gov.za. How to apply To make an application, parents should click on ‘Apply for 2020’ and follow the prompts through the 3 step process: 1. Enter Parent/Legal Guardian Details 2. Enter Learner Details 3. Apply to a School The applicants can choose to listen to and view a step by step video tutorial and/or read a step by step user guide. Parents have a choice to submit a maximum of five applications using options: 1. Home Address 2. Sibling - the sibling should not be in Grade 7 or Grade 12 in the current academic year 3. Work Address 4. The applicant resides within 30 km radius of the school 5. The applicant resides over 30 km radius of the school Parents with children in Grade R in the current school should also apply online. Applications for Grade 8 in schools of focused learning or schools of specialisation, and applications for boarding schools should also be made online. However, the applicant must apply directly to the school for boarding or accommodation. “Applications for Grade 8 at monastic or girls/boys only schools should also be done online. Once the application is complete online, the applicant will receive SMS notification with relevant reference number. “For this reason, applicants are urged to use their own valid cell phone number or email address. All communication with the parent regarding username, password, waiting list reference number, will be conducted through the supplied cell phone number or email address,” Lesufi explained. Applicants should submit the certified copy of Identity Document (ID) of the parent/legal guardian, or a sworn affidavit in case parent/legal guardian does not have an ID. Non-South African citizens should submit certified copy of passport, valid visa or temporary/permanent residence permit/asylum seeker or refugee permit. Non-South African citizens should also submit a study permit/visa or child’s asylum/refugee permit. Upon submission of documents, Lesufi said, parents must sign a register to indicate that documents were submitted and receive a confirmation of submission of documents receipt. “The department validates ID numbers through the Department of Home Affairs to eliminate duplicated and/or falsified ID numbers. In addition, schools will verify all Information and documentation provided. Any falsified or incorrect information/documentation provided may result in an application being rejected and/or disqualified. “In case none of the documents are available, the school will accept the learner provisionally. However, the parent must submit proof to the school within two weeks that they have applied for the documentation,” Panyaza said. Placement process The placement of learners will take place on 27 August to 20 September 2019. Parents will have an obligation to accept or reject the placement offer within seven days, failing which, they will forfeit the offer and it will be given to the next person on the queue. “Spaces in schools are not unlimited and are subject to how many learners currently in the school progress to the next grade. As such, placement will be conducted on a first come, first serve basis,” the MEC said. Exclusions from online system The online system is reserved for applications for Grades 1 or Grade 8. Applications for the in-between Grades, namely Grade 2-7 and Grade 9-11, should be made at the relevant school and not online. A parent wishing to apply for a learner with special needs should apply at the nearest education district office, as children with special needs require assessment by professionals to determine the nature of the need and appropriate school. Applications for independent or private schools are also not covered by the online system and should be made at the relevant school. For queries, parents are advised to contact the department’s call centre on (011) 355 0000; toll free number 0800 000 789; or Email: Gdeinfo@gauteng.gov.za. – SAnews.gov.za