Justice Minister Ronald Lamola says correctional facilities must not only be seen as buildings to keep offenders away from society, but also as correctional centres that rehabilitate offenders in order to reintegrate them back into their communities. Lamola made these remarks following the announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa during the Day of Reconciliation Commemoration in Bergville, KwaZulu-Natal, on Monday. The President announced a decision to remit the sentence expiry dates of specific categories of sentenced offenders, probationers and parolees across all correction facilities in the country. Remission of sentence is a power vested on the President by the constitution and the correctional services act to cut a sentence short. It also means it fast tracks the dates upon which an inmate will be placed on parole, subject to meeting a set criteria. “The decision taken by the President is in-line with established international practice and informed by powers given to him by section 84 (2)(j) of the Constitution, which provides that the President is responsible for pardoning or reprieving offenders and remitting any fines, penalties or forfeitures,” said the Minister. The process will include all Justice, Crime Prevention and Security (JCPS) Cluster Departments, including the South African Police Service (SAPS) and the Department of Home Affairs (DHA) who will be verifying the details of every eligible offender. It is estimated that the special remission process will run from the date of pronouncement by the President, in a phased approach, until successful completion in order to ensure the smooth reintegration of offenders into society. The process will commence with the release of women, children, youth and people with disabilities and will then move on to other categories of offenders. Attendance of a pre-release programme by offenders will also be a pre-requisite before any release. Furthermore, sentenced offenders who may not have participated in other relevant programmes will be prioritized for such pre-release programmes before being considered for release. The Risk and Relapse Probability Report is one of the key tools that is going to be utilized to assess and mitigate any risk associated with reoffending. A JCPS Cluster Technical Task Team has been established to focus, amongst others, on looking at the list of offenders who are foreign nationals that are to be considered for remission. “This Technical Task Team will manage the review of the citizenship status granted to foreign nationals to be done by the Department of Home Affairs as well as verification of fingerprints and DNA analysis (to be done by the SAPS),” said the Minister. The 2019 special remissions project is targeting approximately: The Minister emphasised that government has taken a decision to exclude certain types of offences from the special remission process. “As a responsive government, we have deliberately excluded these types of offences from the special remission process, because we understand the sensitivity they are carrying in our society,” he said. This special remission of sentence will not be applicable to any sentenced offender, probationer, parolee or day parolee who is serving for: -          SAnews.gov.za