Both local and observer missions from the continent have described the 2019 National and Provincial elections as free and fair. The observers have described Wednesday’s Election Day as the most pivotal since the country’s dawn of democracy in 1994. The Electoral Commission of South Africa is set to announce the results of the 2019 elections this evening, as vote counting draws to completion. President of Maleta Motse Africa Community Authority, Micheal Kotsokoane, told SAnews on Saturday that as observers they were happy with the manner in which the elections have been conducted. “The elections went well. We are satisfied with the manner in which the elections were conducted,” he said, adding however that in future the IEC must deploy more observers. Chairperson of the African Marketing Global Empowerment and Projects, Alain Matundu, told SAnews they were pleased by the manner in which the elections were conducted. “We congratulate the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) for hosting these elections so well,” Matundu said. Although there were incidences of intimidation and double voting in some voting stations, Matundu said he could confidently describe the elections as free and fair. He said they have learnt much from South Africa and that the country was an example for others. Matundu said the rights of those who chose not vote should also be respected. “Respect the rights of those who did not vote. They were either undecided or not ready to vote. Their decision must be respected. South Africans must be proud of their country and their democracy and they must protect it,” he said. Frank Assimbo, chairperson and founding member of the Congolese Diaspora for Nelson Mandela Legacy, said the IEC must be commended for a job well done. He said despite some incidences of intimidation at some voting stations the elections were well conducted. “It is impossible to please everybody.There will always be those who would want to spoil the elections or the good work that the government is doing… Most allegations or concerns raised were not substantiated,” he said. CSIR Researcher, Dr Ndumiso Cingo, had earlier said they have confidence in the IEC and that according to their observation, everything went well. “The IEC has a good track record of hosting the elections. They did well in the past and they have done it again,” he said. The vote counting at the IEC’s results centre is nearing completion with just four voting districts outstanding as at lunchtime. – SAnews.gov.za  