Government has yet again showed its commitment to job creation, with the composition of a new Ministry of Employment and Labour which will focus on addressing the challenge of unemployment in the country. Addressing the nation on the composition of the National Executive at the Union Buildings in Tshwane on Wednesday evening, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that he had reduced his Cabinet from 36 to 28 ministries. He said following the elections, the administration was given a clear mandate which needed a capable and efficient Cabinet. “If we are to make effective progress in building the South Africa that we all want, it is important that we deploy into positions of responsibility people who are committed, capable and hard-working, and who have integrity. “In appointing a new national executive, I have taken a number of considerations into account, including experience, continuity, competence, generational mix and demographic and regional diversity,” the President said. He said the people he appointed must realise that the expectations of the South African people have never been greater and that they will shoulder a great responsibility. President Ramaphosa warned the incoming Ministers and Deputy Ministers that their performance – individually and collectively – will be closely monitored against specific outcomes. Where implementation is unsatisfactory, action will be taken. He said the men and women who have been appointed to the executive have been drawn from all corners of the country. The President said for the first time in the history of the country, half of all Ministers were women. “We have also included a significant number of young people. This is in fulfillment of our commitment to giving young people roles of responsibility in all sectors of society.” He said this is part of a generational transition in which government is creating a pipeline of leaders to take the country further into the future. The President named David Mabuza as his Deputy President. President Ramaphosa made the following appointments to the National Executive: The President expressed his appreciation to all those outgoing members of the Executive who served the country so ably in the Fifth Administration. “We continue to value their experience, skills and contribution, and will give them suitable responsibilities where they will be able to serve the nation. “Allow me to express my gratitude to all the Members of the incoming Executive for making themselves available to serve the nation, and I wish them all the best in the execution of their responsibilities. “We have all been called upon to serve the people of this country, and we will do so to the utmost of our ability,” President Ramaphosa said. – SAnews.gov.za 