South Africa has dedicated the month of May to commemorating Africa Month, which government is using to promote the African unity, deeper regional integration and recommit Africa to a common destiny. The theme for the month is “Celebrating 25 Years of Democracy: Building a Better Africa and a Better World” and will culminate on 25 May – when the continent marks Africa Day. Africa Day is celebrated annually on 25 May within the African continent to mark the formation of the Organisation of African Unity on 25 May 1963 and the African Union in 2002, which was created to promote unity in Africa. The day, which is celebrated across the continent is used to acknowledge the progress that Africans have made, while reflecting upon the common challenges faced in a global environment. Government says the focal point of this year’s Africa Month programme is to promote and support the preservation and revival of indigenous languages, and to create discussion platforms for South Africans, in particular local communities, to engage in conversations on Africa’s past, present and future, to foster solidarity and to build unity. In protecting indigenous languages, government believes it will ensure everyone is free to fully communicate and express themselves effectively. In the same vein, indigenous languages have the potential to promote equality, understanding and greater human dignity. South Africa will also be reaffirming its support for the African Union’s Agenda 2063 and commit the country to playing its role within the AU to ensure the successful implementation of the vision and plan to build a better Africa. In support of Agenda 2063, South Africa believes the continent can foster unity amongst all Africans across the continent as it will rejuvenate social, economic and politics of Africa. With regards to peacekeeping, South Africa continues to contribute in post-war reconstruction and development efforts on the continent, while playing a key role in the economic development of the continent through the growing private sector investment in many countries within the continent. The celebrations in South Africa coincides with the commemoration of 25 Years of Democracy, 23 years of existence of the Constitution as well as the inauguration of the new President, which will usher South Africa into the sixth administration. – SAnews.gov.za