The public has 30 days in which to have their say in the designation of the Bojanala Special Economic Zone in the North West province, said the Department of Trade and Industry (dti) on Monday. “The Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr Rob Davies, has issued a Gazette notifying the public and interested parties of his intention to designate the Bojanala Special Economic Zone (SEZ). The public and interested parties will have 30 days from the date of the Gazette to support or object to this intended designation,” it said. This as Davies received and approved a recommendation from the Special Economic Zones Advisory Board to designate the Bojanala Special Economic Zone. The proposed SEZ will be developed on 1 175 hectors of land, which will include the old Bodirelo Industrial Park in Mogwase in the Moses Kotane Local Municipality. The SEZ will focus largely on mineral beneficiation (especially platinum group metals - PGMs), manufacturing, including mining capital equipment supply, agro processing and renewable energy. The application for the designation of the SEZ was submitted by the North West provincial Department of Economic and Enterprise Development, through the North West Development Corporation (NWDC). The Special Economic Zones Advisory Board was satisfied with the proposed business case and economic opportunities that underpinned this envisaged development. The board recommended that the Minister designate the proposed area, and grant a SEZ Licence to the North West provincial department. Davies said the designation of Bojanala SEZ will afford the Bojanala region with an opportunity for developing a purposeful, world-class mineral beneficiation infrastructure. “The proposed SEZ will play a catalytic role towards the economic revival and industrial diversification of the whole mineral dependent Bojanala region. More importantly, this development is expected to contribute towards strengthening South Africa’s international trade through the export of value-added commodities, the creation of stronger value chains and the provision of much-needed jobs in the previously disadvantaged regions,” he said. The dti will, within these 30 days, arrange a public hearing in Mogwase to allow for the community to provide further inputs on the proposed development. Comments may be sent to: Mr Thami Klassen at the Department of Trade and Industry (the dti), the dti Campus 77 Meintjies Street Sunnyside, Pretoria, 0002 Tel: (012) 394 1543 or emailed to TKlassen@thedti.gov.za . The gazette can be accessed on www.thedti.gov.za/gazzettes/42451.pdf. - SAnews.gov.za